[IMP] marketing automation: workflow activities (#8527)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/marketing/marketing_automation/workflow_activities.rst

Campaign workflow activities
============================

A *workflow* is the overall *activity* structure of a marketing automation campaign. There can only
be single workflow in each campaign, however, a workflow can be made up of any number of
:ref:`activities <marketing_automation/activities>` to meet the needs of the campaign.

.. figure:: workflow_activities/workflow-activities.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A workflow in an Odoo Marketing Automation campaign.

   Workflow sequence of three activities; the last child activity has a :ref:`trigger type
   <marketing_automation/trigger-type>` of **Mail: not opened**.

.. _marketing_automation/activities:

Activities
==========

Activities are the methods of communication or server actions, organized in a workflow, that are
executed within a campaign; they are the building blocks of the campaign's workflow.

A new activity can be added to the workflow on a campaign form by selecting an existing campaign or
:ref:`creating a new campaign <marketing_automation/campaigns>` from the :menuselection:`Marketing

> Automation --> Campaigns` dashboard, then clicking the :guilabel:`Add new activity` button. Doing so

Reviewer: I don't recall this being a strict guideline? IIRC this is up to the writer whether or not they want to do this.

> Automation --> Campaigns` dashboard, then clicking the :guilabel:`Add new activity` button. Doing so

Author: That is how I recall [the conversation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1laiWC9ow0IjXPuQp5h8L_Tj98HbE8ymGn9v-FFOwlYM/edit) as well, that it is up to the writer. However, I do like being precise so I will change every instance to include 'app' like KSC is suggesting :)

<marketing_automation/activity-domain>` of the activity.

Once the activity is fully configured, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to add it to the campaign's
workflow, or click :guilabel:`Save & New` to add the activity to the workflow and open a new
:guilabel:`Create Activities` modal to add another activity. Clicking :guilabel:`Discard` closes the
modal without saving the activity.

.. image:: workflow_activities/create-activities.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The create activities modal.

.. _marketing_automation/activity-types:

Activity types
--------------

There are three different types of activities available in Marketing Automation:

- :ref:`Email <marketing_automation/email-activity-type>`: an email that is sent to the target
  audience.
- :ref:`Server action <marketing_automation/sa-activity-type>`: an internal action within the
  database that is executed.
- :ref:`SMS <marketing_automation/sms-activity-type>`: a text message that is sent to the target
  audience.

.. _marketing_automation/email-activity-type:

Email
~~~~~

If :guilabel:`Email` is selected as the :guilabel:`Activity Type`, the option to :guilabel:`Pick or

> Create a Template...` in the :guilabel:`Mail Template` field is available.

Author: I totally agree, I got carried away with the create flow 😄 I will modify this to be exact 👍

Once the server action is configured, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the activity and return
to the :guilabel:`Create Activities` modal and continue to configure the :ref:`trigger
<marketing_automation/trigger>`.

.. tip::
   Some of the server action types have advanced configurations available when :ref:`developer-mode`
   is activated, such as specifying the :guilabel:`Allowed Groups` that can execute this server
   action.

.. _marketing_automation/sms-activity-type:

SMS
~~~

If :guilabel:`SMS` is selected as the :guilabel:`Activity Type`, the option to :guilabel:`Pick or
Create a Template...` in the :guilabel:`SMS Template` field is available.

To create a new template directly from the :guilabel:`SMS Template` field, start typing the title of
the new template and select :guilabel:`Create and edit...` to reveal a :guilabel:`Create Marketing
Template` modal. Proceed to create and configure the new SMS template.

.. image:: workflow_activities/sms-activity-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The create and edit email drop-down option on create activities pop-up window.

Once the SMS template is configured, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the activity and return

> to the :guilabel:`Create Activities` modal and continue to configure the :ref:`trigger

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the :guilabel:`Create Activities` modal, in order to configure the :ref:`trigger
```

<marketing_automation/trigger>`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Creating and configuring SMS templates <../sms_marketing/essentials/sms_essentials>`

.. _marketing_automation/trigger:

Trigger
-------

Once an :ref:`activity type <marketing_automation/activity-types>` is configured, the next step in
the :guilabel:`Create Activities` modal is to define when the activity should be executed. This is
done in the :guilabel:`Trigger` field group.

.. image:: workflow_activities/trigger.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The trigger field group on Create Activities modal.

To set an execution delay for the activity from when the :ref:`trigger type
<marketing_automation/trigger-type>` occurs, type a whole number in the *interval number* input

> (e.g., `2` is valid, `0` is also valid, and `1.5` is not).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(e.g. `2` is valid, `0` is also valid, and `1.5` is not).
```

   .. tab:: Server Action

      .. image:: workflow_activities/sa-trigger-types.png
         :align: center
         :alt: The trigger types for child activities of a server action activity.

      Triggers the child activity on the following condition of the parent activity:

      - :guilabel:`Add Another Activity`: to be executed after the parent activity.

   .. tab:: SMS

      .. image:: workflow_activities/sms-trigger-types.png
         :align: center
         :alt: The trigger types for child activities of an SMS activity.

      Each trigger the child activity on the following conditions of the parent activity:

      - :guilabel:`Add Another Activity`: to be executed after the parent activity.
      - :guilabel:`Clicked`: a link in the SMS was clicked by the participant.
      - :guilabel:`Not Clicked`: a link in the SMS was **not** clicked by the participant.
      - :guilabel:`Bounced`: the SMS has bounced.

Once a trigger type is selected, the :guilabel:`Create Activities` modal opens to configure the
child activity. The process is the same as :ref:`creating a new activity
<marketing_automation/activities>`, with the exception that the :guilabel:`Trigger` field is

> pre-filled with the selected trigger type and the and :guilabel:`Activity` field has the parent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pre-filled with the selected trigger type, and the :guilabel:`Activity` field has the parent
```

further filter the target audience of the activity.

The :guilabel:`Activity Filter` field focuses this activity, **and** its :ref:`child activities
<marketing_automation/child-activities>`, even further on a specific group of the campaign's filter.
The process is the same as :ref:`defining filters <marketing_automation/defining-filters>` for the
campaign, and the fields that are available to filter are also specific to the :guilabel:`Target`
of the campaign.

The :guilabel:`# record(s)` beside the :guilabel:`Activity Filter` field indicates how many records
are currently being targeted by this :guilabel:`Activity Filter`.

The :guilabel:`Applied Filter` displays the combined filters from the :guilabel:`Activity Filter`
and the inherited campaign :doc:`Filter <target_audience>`. This field is read-only.

The :guilabel:`# record(s)` beside the :guilabel:`Applied Filter` field indicates how many records,
in total, are currently being targeted by the activity.

.. _marketing_automation/child-activities:

Child activities
================

Activities that are connected to, and triggered by, another activity are known as, *child
activities*.

> The activity that triggers a child activity is known as it's *parent activity*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The activity that triggers a child activity is known as its *parent activity*.
```
